## Natalie Tirabassi / 10/16/21

## Executive Summary 
Delving deeper into the world of computers and programming, during this lab I got practice using the command prompt, working in Python, and creating graphics. It was interesting learning how to create a file folder through the command prompt when I am used to doing it in the file manager, but the command prompt is fairly straightforward and quite useful because you can accomplish nearly everything through it. The many different types of codes in Python seem complicated, but with lots of practice it is easy to get the hang of. Finally, the graphics section was very easy for me as I have taken a few graphic design classes before, but it was good to revisit that and practice creating a vector image, which has always been one of my weak points.

## Python IDLE
Both the shell and the file editor in Python IDLE look very similiar; however, there are a few differences. The interactive shell is what opens at startup and is useful for running Python instructions one at a time. The file editor is more useful for writing entire Python programs. It lets a user type in various instructions, save the file, and run the program. The way a user can tell the shell and file editor apart is that the shell window will have the ">>>" prompt on the left side, whereas the file editor will not.
## Code Examples
### Variable:
A variable is where you can store a single value in the computer's memory. This is helpful for using an expression or value later in a program. A variable is intialized the first time a value is stored in it, and you can replace old values by assigning new ones, which is called overwriting the variable. An example of a variable would be the name "bacon." It is like a labeled box that will contain a value. The author uses the variable names "spam," "bacon," and "eggs" because of the Monty Python sketch called "Spam."
### Assignment statement:
In order to store a value into a variable, you must use an assignment statement. An assignment statement consists of a variable name, am equal sign (which is called the assignment operator), and the value to be stored. An example of this would be "bacon = 5," where "bacon" is the variable and "5" is the value. You would now be able to use "bacon" is place of a 5 anywhere in your code.
### Function:
A function in Python is like a mini program within your program. It tells the program what to do. When writing a function name, the opening and closing parentheses at the end identify it as the name of a function. An example of a function would be "print('Hello')." The print function is telling the program to print the word "Hello."
### Three data types:
The three most common data types are integers, floating-point numbers, and strings. An integer data type are values that are whole numbers, such as 3, 8, or  76. Any number with a decimal point, such as 6.94, are floating-point numbers. Integers are usually referred to as "int," and floating-point numbers are called "floats." The last data type is strings, or "strs." These are text values, which must always be started and ended with single quotes, so that Python knows where the string begins and ends. Strings with no characters in them are called blank strings.
## Graphics
### Raster vs. Vector Graphics
Small images lose their qulaity when enlarged, due to thousands of tiny pixels. This type of image is raster. When raster images are viewed at their original size, or smaller, the pixels are invisible. They become more apparent when you zoom in or increase the sie of the image. A raster image would be most appropriate used as a photo on a website that doesn't need to be particularly large, such as a profile photo. The difference in vector graphics is that they can be made into any size without losing quality. This is because they rendered using a special form of geometry, rather than pixels. Vectors are best used as large graphics or logos that can easily be resized as needed.
### Lossless vs. Lossy Compression
Lossless image compression means all the data from the original file is preserved, whereas lossy compression removes some data from the original file and saves the image with a reduced file size. Developers and designers must decide how much of the data to disregard by setting the image compression rate. For larger, better quality files, a developer might choose lossless compression, but if they need a smaller, more condensed file size, lossy compression would work best.
### File Formats
GIF stands for Graphics Interchange Format. It supports up to 8 bits per pixel, and allows for animated images, unlike jpegs and pngs. For simple graphics like logos or line drawings, GIF formats work best. JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) is an image format that uses lossless compression to create smaller file sizes. It is best used for photos with subtle shifts in color without any sharp contrasts. PNGs are also lossless, but are the opposite of JPEGs, being better suited for photos with high contrast. Like GIFs, PNGs are also useful for line art, as well as illustrations. However, it is the best option out of the three for transparent images, especially those that require partial transparency.
### File Properties
File properties are useful because it allows a user to see all the exact information of a file, such as the type, the size, the location, and when it was created, modified, and accessed. There is also a tab for security where you can edit permission for the file, such as reading, editing, and having full control. The details tab goes more in-depth into the properties, and the previous versions tab is helpful if you ever want to restore a previous version of that file.
## Conclusion

In conclusion, the more technical part of this lab was extremely helpful because I got to practice firsthand everything that I have been learning about in this class. Creating a file folder in the commond prompt and a mini program in Python seem unimpressive, but it was exciting to see the commands I inputted come to life. The only major problem I ran into was that Vectr is difficult to use - the commands aren't very user-friendly, it lags, and the tools are inconsistent and hard to use. Maybe it is because I am so accustomed to working in Photoshop and Illustrator, but it took me quite a while to get the hang of it. However, this lab was good practice for me to work in different programs, and come up with ways to problem-solve when things get difficult.
