## Natalie Tirabassi / 10/4/21

## Executive Summary 
Software plays an important part in making sure a computer functions and runs smoothly. There are many differents types of software that are capable of doing many things, and behind all of that is the work of programmers, software engineers, and other IT technicians. During this lab I was able to learn about all the technologies that are put in place in order to ensure that everything on our computers run smoothly, and also get taste of Python. Thanks to its simplisitic form, learning the basics were easy and I am looking forward to delving even deeper into the world of programming. I also learned about the many types of fields and occupations that computers have created. Choosing the right career can be tricky and frightening, but now I have a more concrete idea and feel confident in my decision, especially with the abundant resources available to me. 

## Software
Software is the set of instructions that tells the hardware what to do. It is created through the process of programming, and without it, hardware would not be functional.
### Types of Software
Operating systems manage the hardware and create the interface betweeen the hardware and the user. These systems also provide a platform for software developers to write. Examples of operating system software would be Windows, Google, or Apple. Application software is the category of programs that do something useful for the user, such as Microsoft Word or iTunes. These types of programs perform specific tasks such as word processing, accounting, database management, video games, and browsing the web. Utility software includes programs that allow a person to fix or modifiy their computer, such as anti-malware software and programs that uninstall unwanted software.
### ERP
ERP, or Enterprise Resource Planning, is a system of integrated applications for managing businesses. It was developed to bring together entire organizations within one program, and in order to do that it utilizes a central database. An organization can purchase models for its ERP system that match specific needs, such as order entry, manufacturing, or planning. SAP, Oracle, and Microsoft are all examples of ERP. 

## Virtualization
Virtualization is a technology that lets you create useful IT services that are traditionally bound to hardware. It allows a user to use a physical machine's full capacity by distributing its capabilities among many users or environments.
### Problems Solved by Virtualization
A common IT problem was that were many users and only a few machines to accomodate them. Virtualization was the natural solution to this because companies could partition their servers and run legacy apps on multiple operating systems types and versions. As a result, servers started being used more efficiently, which then reduced the costs of purchase, set up, cooling and maintenance.
### Role of Hypervisor
Software called hypervisors separate the physical resources from virtual environments - the things that need those resources. They can rest on top of an operating system, or be installed directly onto hardware. Hypervisors take the physical resources and divide them up so that virtual environments can use them. When the virtual environment is running and a user or program issues an instruction that requires additional resources from the physical environment, the hypervisor relays the request to the physical system and caches the changes.
## Python
### Pseudo-Code Nature of Python
Python is a very simplistic and minimalistic coding language. It has a pseudo-code nature which means that it is a plain language description of steps in the algorithm, designed for human reading rather than a machine. This is one of Python's greatest strengths because it allows a user to concentrate on the solution to the problem rather than trying to decipher the language itself.
### Interpreted vs. Compiled Language
A program written in a compiled language, such as C++, is converted from the source language using a compiler with various flags and options. When the program is run, the linker/loader software copies the program from the hard disk to memory and starts running it. 
With an interpreted language, like Python, the program is run directly from the source code, and it does not need compilation to binary. Internally, the program converts the source code into an intermediate form called byte codes and translates this into the native language of the computer and runs it. It makes the programs more portable and much easier to use as a result.

## Career Exploration
### Handshake
Handshake is an online job board that allows students to discover employers and apply for employment opportunities, find virtual career fairs, communicate directly with employers, upload resumes, and register for workshops. The website is extremely easy to use, and it recommends jobs based on your major which is very helpful and efficient. Users are able to build a profile that helps them stand out to employers, customize their interests, and access the Career Center for any questions they might have. Handshake does an excellent job of ensuring students and graduates have all the resources they need to find a job.
### Bureau of Labor Statistics
The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics measures labor market activity, working conditions, price changes, and productivity in the U.S. economy to support public and private decision making. I found this site a bit harder to navigate because of the small, condensed text, crowded tabs, and tiny page navigators. It was interesting to see the various statistics of different occupations, but I had trouble at first finding my area of interest as I could not simply search for it. Once I found it, I was able to see the pay median, education requirements, and other statistics that were intriguing and informative. The skills needed for the career were especially of interest to me.
### Certifications
CompTIA Cybersecurity Analyst is an IT workforce certification that applies behavioral and analytics to networks and devices to prevent, detect, and combat cybersecurity threats through continuous security monitoring. It is the only certification with both hands-on, performance-based questions and multiple-choice questions. It verifies that the successful candidate has the appropriate knowledge and skills, such as leveraging intelligence and threat detection techniques, analyzing and interpreting data, and identifying and addressing vulnerabilities, among others. It validates an IT professional's ability to proactively defend and improve the security of an organization.
### Certificates and Degrees
The Programming and Development Certificate is of interest to me because one day I hope to become a software developer. This a post-degree program at Tri-C that is designed to prepare students for this type of career. Students learn how to operate in a team environment, apply knowledge of programming, web maintenance, operating systems, networking and security to install, troubleshoot, and provide support for technological organizational systems, among other important skills.
### Co-ops / Internships
A co-op opportunity gives students an advantage by providing them with hands-on learning experience through jobs related to their field. It allows a student to use what they learned in the classroom and apply it to real-world situations. It is also vital to a student's marketability. In order to become co-op ready, a student must fulfill the eligibility requirements: be currently enrolled at Tri-C, complete 12 credit hours of coursework, and have a sufficient GPA. They will then complete the Application of Interest, participate in a co-op orientation, and upload their resume for final revisions and approval by a Career Coach.
### Industry Associations / Student Organizations
The mission of the Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition is to provide institutions with an information assurance curriculum in a competitive environment to assess the student's depth of understanding and competency in managing challenges related to business information systems. A membership to the Cybersecurity Club would be benefical because they participate in this competition. It allows students to apply the skills they have learned in their coursework, and also participate in teams and learn the value of teamwork, ethics and communication. It also provides a healthy competitive environment to push students to perform their best.

## Conclusion

Include your professional conclusion here...
